hey modern vegans I was inspired to
create today's video after i saw izel
mozart's video addressing cory mccarthy
and some of the things that he and his
girlfriend or wife I don't know if
they're married we're saying in one of
their videos which has been since made
private but in essence the video was
talking about how America was created by
whites for whites that he and his
girlfriend are not racist but that they
think that people of other ethnicities
and religions don't belong in the United
States and Corey McCarthy responded to
isil's video where ISIL kind of called
him out for being racist crim McCarthy
responded by saying I don't hate anyone
and I don't hate these people but
basically they should stay far away from
my country and I think this is
incredibly problematic what I found even
more problematic was seeing Charles the
vegan cheetah saying to his viewers do
you think this is racist he didn't say
it was racist he asked his viewers if it
was racist so it surprised me that he
was not willing to just come right out
with it and say this is racist and I
think that that is important I really
think that it is important for us to be
able to call a spade a spade or in this
case to call a racist a racist
everybody's got a lot to say about
racism I probably could have switched
this camera on at any point during the
last two years and talked for two hours
spontaneously about racism kanagavel
racism within Canada within Europe
within Asia you know within northern
Laos a lot of tourists northern Laos to
them it looks like everyone's just Asian
or everyone's loud no no no no hang
around study the language the history
the politics you learn pretty quick
there are distinctions between different
ethnic groups in northern Laos then some
cases really deeply hate each other in
other cases the hatred is more cordial
and shallow and cooperative you know
what in the north of laos two of the
groups were especially close and yet
hated each other were the that I knew
and the tiny
this reminded me within canada of the
difference between canadians and kennedy
an as etymologically you're getting into
a situation where these are almost the
same word and yet a little bit of
difference in the pronunciation you know
hints at a profound difference between
people who do not at all consider
themselves historically ethnically or
lingual e2b to be the same people and in
other cases the differences in that part
asian or more obvious the difference
between the mon Khmer people and the
Thai could I people etc etc and from
their perspective you know like with the
in Laos and the South allows can be very
dramatic with in Laos there are
differences that they themselves
describe is the difference between black
and white it's very interesting I do
actually have some articles talking
about this stuff ah but that's the story
for another day it's peculiar that
ninglin terms of an ism a word ending
with is em like racism and we sometimes
address them in terms of a phobia such
as homophobia once in a while you hear
negra phobia you know fear of black
people but mostly we address this in
terms of racism you know racism the word
itself suggested it I ology whereas
something like negra phobia suggests a
fear both are problematic but as you
have some more experience in life and
this really I think has to be
face-to-face experience with people this
sort of thing you do not learn from
books I don't really think you're going
to learn it from the internet to be
frank with you but you know you can meet
people who have either become racist or
have become retrenched in their racist
views do to you know regrettably life
experience I'm going to get out three
examples pretty rapidly here first is a
simple one I remember I knew a white man
he was not a boy it was not a teenager
as a fully grown man and at some point
he had his bike stolen by a couple of
black guys in the United States now my
impression from what he said about it
was that the black guys did not beat him
up they just verbally threatened him and
took his bicycle away from him as an
adult
and you know the result of this was
again it it's really better to describe
it as negra phobia rather than racism
wasn't really an ideology it wasn't
something he really believed in or
espoused but he really was racist and
although on some level you know his
story is pathetic and you may find it
sympathetically if you met him
face-to-face or anything well this guy
he feels this way because of this
experience but it still is racism and it
still is morally wrong and it still is
as absurd and surreal as if you know
white people have done all kinds of bad
things to me the vast majority of crimes
committed against myself or my family
have been by white people because I grew
up in a country that's majority white
but if if white people stole my bicycle
would I then respond to that by hating
and fearing all white people know and
this this guy this example would neither
so obviously the interplay of fear and
personal experience and constructing
what ultimately is a racist worldview
even if it's an implicitly racist one
not one you know espoused and preaches
would've loved you it's problematic even
in a case like that um as another man I
met who is one of the most remarkable
and memorable examples of racism I'll
ever meet in my life he was a white man
originally from Scotland from Glasgow
Scotland the city I know a city I know a
little too well and yet another sense I
don't know what at all definitely not
anymore everyone tells me it's changed
beyond recognition but this guy grew up
in Scotland in the bad old days and he
had spent his adult life in South
America the Caribbean and Africa he was
I mean honestly really he is probably
among the most well-traveled man in
africa i will ever meet in my life he's
probably in the most the most traveled
one percent of men he have really been
to every corner of Africa you know
obscure small towns around the whole
continent he had in effect ended up
exploring the entire continent of Africa
and in all those places he was
surrounded by black people lived with
black people and especially dated and
had his girl friends and lovers an
enormous number of black women again a
two-and-a-half continents if you like so
and he could speak both Portuguese and
Spanish fluently and his own ex-wife was
black and his so his kids with that
ex-wife he at least one he at least one
kid with his ex-wife were you know half
black or you know would identify as
black I assume it's a huge part of his
life was surrounded by and paused
because it's a positive experience black
people ah but he also lived in Baltimore
the United States where he had a job in
the construction sector you know
building and renovating houses and he
was the most racist person imaginable
against specifically African Americans
not Africans in Africa not African not
Africans in Surrey nut people of African
ancestry in Haiti he only hated
african-americans and he hated them so
bitterly and spoke against them with
such you know unbelievable malice as
contrast was sort of almost fascinating
to me and I could member you know I
wasn't trying to save his soul or
anything like I'm we were saying to him
you know don't you feel that your
experience in one part of the economy in
Baltimore Baltimore is a somewhat
infamous City you know for its drug
problems especially you know so working
in construction in Baltimore coming into
contact with organized crime with a lot
of drug addicts with a lot of people you
know who are seeking minimum wage jobs
in construction and so on because he
told me but that he told me about that
world that he was involved in you know I
was just trying to get him to reflect a
little bit don't you think your
experience with African Americans would
be very different if you had just lived
in Washington DC and had any other job
any other part of the economy don't
she'll be different has been in Northern
California again had any other any other
type of contact that France and you know
he could he could reflect on a little
bit but um the bitterness in him was was
too deep for what it whatever
combination of reasons and he was he was
not going to let go that so unbelievable
I hope it's on blue but as you grow up
as you mature those types of
contradictions they're they're exactly
what what you have to believe it's the
same way within Europe I mean the
intense hatred between uh you know the
British and the Irish obviously someone
from here in China they can't see the
difference between an Irishman and an
Englishman but you know for centuries
and centuries people really believe that
was a profound biological difference and
that you know the the English and the
Irish were as different as night and day
and like I was just saying up in
northern Laos some of the groups some of
the ethnic differences a foreigner shows
up can't see the difference in people's
faces I could but then in my time there
I really could but um I was studying the
language in history and politics and so
on but you know those differences
visible or invisible allegedly
biological or cultural or historical
whatever the whatever the story is
people can people can hold onto them
very tightly let's not have to too many
anecdotal examples here but obviously
also I think you guys know I used to
live in Saskatchewan where I worked on
Korean a jib way the algonquian
languages politics of First Nations
people and in a place like Saskatchewan
the Nemean form of racism is not black
versus white it's white versus red it's
the tension surrounding Canada's
indigenous people those are very much
you know the the stories in the news are
of police brutality against our native
people and of that Fisher and of you
know the legacy of our own terrible
history and of where our society is
going to go next given that history so
I've dealt with questions of racism in
many many different contexts and go
everywhere I go everywhere I go
anti-semitism you know the hysterical
beliefs and theories about about Judaism
and Jews I think everyone
in the decadent West expected those
things to fade out and be less and less
of a problem in the 21st century but
they're not if she still need two highly
educated people who believe ridiculous
theories uh you know what the russian
revolution that Lenin was was secretly
Jewish shitty Collins the entire Russian
Revolution was a conspiracy little
controlled by Israel or something
totally anachronistic and absurd yeah
but those things apparently will never
leave us like blue jeans they're just
never going to go out of style it comes
back again and again I would think as
vegans we would be particularly aware of
this we would be particularly aware of
the fact that might does not make right
so in the last few days ahead a couple
different videos discussing racism and I
think many people ignored what I said at
the beginning of those two videos
because actually the intro to each one
states very clearly what my purpose is
and what my purpose isn't the more
recent of the two videos as explained in
the first few seconds was simply to give
the other side a chance to fairly
explain their worldview and the video
does that you get a long largely
uninterruptedly of what that view of the
world is and where I've edited it it is
mostly just for the sake of consistency
because the original video did meander
as you can imagine or as you can see for
yourself now the first of the two videos
also says very clearly what its purpose
is and what it isn't in that video what
I was trying to do simply was to draw
attention to a problem with in veganism
the tendency we've had on the internet
to make a mountain out of a molehill
when it comes to issues of race racism
etc but to ignore the mountains that are
really there the big problems frankly
people who either really are neo-nazis
or who are on the cusp of being
neo-nazis but extreme fascistic racist
views of the world that are being
espoused within twenty first century
veganism so those are two very simple
and blunt purposes
and neither one of them really offers a
critique of the claims being offered by
the other side why is that look some of
my earlier videos fundamentally why
would you offer critique because it's
going to be educational for the people
being engaged in the debate of the
discussion I had an earlier critique of
the vegan anarchist that you know where
I took the time to at some length
criticize what he said about us housing
policy for the poor and the homeless how
governments in modern Western countries
like the United States provide
subsidized housing to poor people and
why they don't simply reassign vacant
lots and abandoned houses to become
housing for the poor in America now I
think the vast majority of people who
watch that video really learn something
from it because most people never think
about that kind of issue and most people
don't have the kind of technical
background in political science
economics whatever you want to say to be
able to speak to that issue so I knew
that was educational for everyone
involved the point wasn't just to
disagree with this one other person on
YouTube the point wasn't just to show
off something I happen to know about but
people involved are really going to
learn from it and I do think that's at
that example discussing housing policy
for how to help the poor in the homeless
it's also an example where people could
really change their minds over the long
term definitely there are a lot of
left-wing people who seem to imagine
these problems have very simple
immediate solutions if only the
government wasn't crave only we elected
someone who agreed with me all these
problems could be solved overnight and
when you think through it in a more
systematic way you realize no this isn't
a simple issue of left-wing versus
right-wing actually procedurally and
economically providing housing the
people who are currently homeless or
poor it's complicated and there's a
reason why basically no government in
the history the world is be able to
solve it overnight unless you want to
look at complete disasters in history of
the world where suddenly homelessness is
not a problem because your population is
collapsed you have more housing the
kikis or what have you um you know a lot
of political ideologies offer simple
solution to complex questions and it can
be very meaningful say no no let's let's
take some time to really
through the complexities on this issue I
mean all right what are you going to
address factually and who is going to
benefit from dressing it this is a
situation where the views being
discussed are so far beneath contempt
they're so impossible for the majority
of people take seriously the vast
majority people in this channel take
seriously that there's really no point
of engaging a critique of them I know
it's quite a few comments both publicly
and you know emails or messages sent to
me privately quite a few people you know
were stunned by the UM the coconut
falling from a tree comment that you
know Cory made recording was justifying
the difference between western white
Western civilization and various
tropical civilizations Africa or Asia
what have you but say that that somehow
agriculture in Europe the history of
agriculture in North Northern Europe and
in Western Europe was supposedly so much
more impressive than thrust to the world
because these hotter portlets the world
people could simply have a coconut fall
on their head and therefore survival was
easy now Cory nobody watching here this
comes do you think he's read a single
book on the history of agriculture in
Cambodia i have i've read about history
of agriculture kapadia i've read it with
history of agriculture in laos and
thailand i have done much less reading
about the history of agriculture in
china but i know enough to be aware that
in terms of not just thousands of years
but tens of thousands of years places
like China and North Africa and North
India have a very long history of
Agriculture and there has been good
archeology history written about it but
but aside from all that the idea that
survival in the tropics is easy and
doesn't require intelligence and
ingenuity and self-discipline as you the
guy has obviously never never read
anything about the survival of any group
of indigenous people in a tropical
country anywhere and not on the island
of Tonga and not in Cambodia Laos or
Africa or what have you is a huge
literature of anthropology dealing with
these kinds of things and I mean almost
everybody reads this
even if they are racist because plenty
of people were interested in that type
of them until aunt plug frankly they
aren't racist most people who do any
reading above that come out of it with a
tremendous sense of respect for
historically how those people survived
whether you're talking about people who
did have advanced and complex systems of
Agriculture or if you talk about the
hunter-gatherers I mean the lives of
hunter-gatherer peoples people who did
not practice agriculture in a tropical
jungle it's very impressive mentally
physically and otherwise just you know
so this is just stupidity self-righteous
ignorance and malice and I think on some
level everyone knows that so you know
why offer a critique of the facts what
on the one hand the people I'm
disagreeing with show no interest in the
facts none what do you think you think
cory what cory has to say about the
history of agriculture even within
europe you did this is based on an
open-minded interested study and mystery
valley I know you again me because of
where I live the research i did a
country like Laos laos in northern
Thailand I know much more about the
history of agriculture there than then I
do about history bad culture in Haiti
another fascinating case study they have
done some reading about but no matter
where you look at this Rebecca culture
whether you're looking at you know the
time scale of thousands of years tens of
thousand years or just the last couple
of centuries and then you know the
challenge of modernity and how
traditional methods changed and so on
nobody could possibly take with Corey
has to say seriously even just looking
at it and this as an isolated fact as if
we can separate this argument from the
racist and imperialist narrative that it
serves that it's a part of but again you
know why would you even address the
factual argument when it's so obvious
that the factual argument is just an
ornament for hatred when it's just an
ornament for malice there's the motive
is everything and the facts are nothing
and obviously he's discarding you know
thousands of facts that are contrary to
its opinion to pick out fact that he
feels favors opinion and so on but
this comes back to that Latin phrase
that I mentioned a few videos ago on
this channel you know villain on this
guitar I can teach you something but I
can't teach you to want to learn I can't
teach you to listen I can teach you to
be willing to listen I can't teach you
to will I can't teach you to want it and
that's exactly what i said in both of
those videos in the second video
replying to it to corey mccarthy you
know it toward the end it says look you
know Cory if you actually are gonna if
your views are going to become more
sophisticated more informed
fundamentally you just have to have more
respect for the people who disagree with
you to be willing to listen to their
side to be willing to listen to their
facts and to be won't listen they're
more concerns so there is no point in
offering khatik on the facts of the
matter and I mean it again so in the
very first video I stated very very
succinctly the the moral and ethical
problem which is simply that there is no
bridge between the facts as he presents
them and he believes their facts I don't
believe their facts I think what he's
presenting is deeply flawed but we can
recognize okay given that he believes in
these facts how do you build the bridge
between those facts and the normative
moral ethical claims about what we
should do now you know okay in terms of
human inequality I used to live in a
little country named laos in southeast
asia did a lot of research there in
terms of people being born with impaired
IQ impaired intelligence the rest of
their lives Laos is a very important
example of that and not for reasons of
DNA in Laos they had a custom that to my
knowledge is still predominant when I
was there the government was considering
doing up a health education campaign to
try to change this custom they have a
custom of pregnant mothers starving
themselves during the final trimester of
pregnancy they would starve themselves
by eating nothing but a thin bamboo soup
during basically the final three months
of pregnancy now the women did this for
a variety of traditional beliefs with
the traditionalists with the most
powerful motive ultimately was linking
this to vanity so the women believed and
this is not sadly this is not going to
the unscientific that if they starve
themselves this way during the last
three months of pregnancy the baby's
skull would not grow as much which
science tells me is true it in literally
retards brain development if pregnant
mother starves during the last trimester
that the skull doesn't grow as much and
then that the pregnant woman when she
gave gives birth the birth will be
easier and the woman will not lose her
figure so shall retain more of the lean
look that is desirable that they want to
sustain into their middle age so
fundamentally there's vanity and
selfishness as well as a kind of
cultural mythology and other beliefs
that I'm not mentioning here that are
linked to this practice has done
throughout the country now the result is
that very directly damages the
intelligence it causes brain damage to
infants it causes impaired brain
development to unborn infants in that
country and to a huge number of them uh
you know there are other factors there
are real racial stereotypes of allow
people being being stupid compared two
Cambodians or thai people or
what-have-you next door I think even
though that's a dramatic and terrible
public health problem that you know when
I was there as say the government was
considering making it their priority but
at that time that a couple of other
campaigns you know they still worried
about AIDS they were still worrying
about helmets the big campaign at that
time was getting people to prevent brain
damage by wearing helmets when they
wrote a motorcycle anyway the government
had other priorities at that moment but
they may have finally moved forward and
trying to eradicate that cultural
practice which is entrenched but
probably the single most visible thing
in terms of impaired intelligence that
you see in Laos is simply that in the
whole country culturally in terms of
habit people do not sleep through the
night people are very sleep-deprived
they're taking short naps during the day
all the time because they're just
getting little bits of pieces of sleep
here and there I could I could talk
about this for an hour but both in the
city and in the countryside you're
always surrounded by people who are
sleep-deprived and who are taking naps
while they're sitting next to you at
strange times and what have you and you
know even even for me if I don't sleep
well if I'm in that kind of scattered
state my intelligence is massively
impaired so I know that's effect that's
impacting the pee
around me so poor nutrition during
pregnancy and irregular sleep two things
that have nothing to do with your DNA do
in a very meaningful sense impact the
intelligence that you can observe in
people when you're in Laos so in this
case I'm presenting this USA as a fact
some percentage of people in Laos I
think a very significant percentage
suffer from these two problems and when
you're there you might well perceive
them as being low IQ people being people
of very limited intelligence cable what
where does that lead us morally
ethically normatively terms of planning
for the future so what so does that
justify the French Empire should the
French conquer Laos and turn it into a
colony no no should the Americans
conquer Laos and turn it into a pawn in
their Cold War politics while they tried
didn't work out didn't work out for the
lab people didn't wherever the Americans
either despite having an unlimited
budget the Americans dropped more bombs
on Laos and I dropped on germany during
world war two enormous loss of human
life enormous loss of money of material
resources what have you what does this
justify and now another thing on a
case-by-case basis when you meet lao
people with an open mind and open heart
you have to just judge them individually
as to who's smart and who's not and
who's who you can work with and you
can't who you're going to be friends
with and you're not going to be friends
with you have to in an open-minded way
with each verse you meet judge them
fairly even if this information
prejudices your tough sense what are we
going to do with our lives in relation
to people who may be disadvantaged
intellectually as well as physically as
well as financially from from being born
in those circumstances there's this
whole list of chronic diseases there's
the there's the mal nourishment during
pregnancy but there's also you know
iodine deficiency is a long list of real
chronic health problems and Laos that
can impair brain development what does
that justify what is my attitude going
to be yes I want you know the Government
of Laos to carry out public education
campaigns on iodine to avoid iodine
deficiency I want them to care at health
campaigns about you know pregnant women
eating properly and feeding your
children properly after the born I a
whole lot of positive concern and
engagement for me comes out of that but
it absolutely no point did i respond to
that by you know me being on an ego trip
or me feeling this kind of hatred or me
having this this agenda to denigrate and
belittle others and try to make up my
own civilization amount cultural history
to be to be better than them and so on I
would think as vegans we would be
particularly aware of this we would be
particularly aware of the fact that
might does not make right Cory McCarthy
says in his video which again is made
private now but he made this Conte this
comment in his video that we should not
feel guilty about what happened in the
past when the natives were pretty much
wiped out by by white people because we
had superior technology and of course we
won and so we won fair and square he's
asserting that might makes right in the
most basic sense and if we followed that
sort of logic we would live in utter
chaos part of living under a social
contract is agreeing to care for people
who cannot care for themselves and it's
also about giving up all right to commit
random acts of violence whenever we
happen to disagree with people I guess
in closing I'll say you know people who
do humanitarian work sometimes get raked
over the coals get criticized for having
a so-called you know white Savior
complex or Superman complex or feeling
superior to the the people they're
trying to help if there's anything that
this corey mccarthy controversy shows
you it's that you know what there are
worse things than the then the savior
complex those people i've met those
people i have me obviously the christian
missionaries who are out there trying to
save people's souls call them rice bag
converts go to a village full of
starving people or poverty-stricken
people offer them a sack of rice in
exchange for their immortal soul a lot
of things you know very psychologically
damaging about that transaction but
nevertheless as dark and disturbing as
that may be it certainly compares
favorably to the
racist Pro Empire pro genocide world
view of someone like Cory McCarthy of
the golden one and you know this
controversy that happened to have
transpired within the world of the
digital vegan demi-monde I don't know I
hope you can take something positive
from it and apply to your own life
because all of us all of us have to
learn to tread water in a world where
these terrible inequalities exist and
where none of us have you no simple
solutions to complicated problems